# Biomass Tracking System - Monthly Interagency Meeting - June 18
[**VIEW RECORDING - 58 mins (40 secs of highlights)**](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ)

---
## Meeting Purpose

[Monthly interagency meeting to discuss progress on the Biomass Tracking System project and address questions about the BOOST open data standard.](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=11.0 "PLAY @0:11")

## Key Takeaways

  - [Project is on track, with final report drafting underway and review planned for mid-July](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=227.0 "PLAY @3:47")
  - [BOOST working group is actively developing the open data standard, using GitHub and W3C platforms](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=564.0 "PLAY @9:24")
  - [Clarification needed on roles/expectations for agency participation in technical standard development](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=1341.0 "PLAY @22:21")
  - [Ongoing governance and maintenance of the open standard after project completion remains an open question](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=1794.0 "PLAY @29:54")

## Topics

### Project Timeline and Deliverables

  - [Public outreach and interviews concluded (one potential remaining)](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=167.0 "PLAY @2:47")
  - [Regulatory and framework analysis completed](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=188.0 "PLAY @3:08")
  - [Final report drafting in progress, outline feedback incorporated](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=300.0 "PLAY @5:00")
  - [Draft report review planned for mid-July, with 2-week feedback period](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=320.0 "PLAY @5:20")
  - [Final report completion targeted for end of August](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=360.0 "PLAY @6:00")
  - [Final presentation scheduled for September interagency meeting](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=390.0 "PLAY @6:30")

### BOOST Working Group Progress

  - [Using GitHub for version control and W3C for standard development](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=935.0 "PLAY @15:35")
  - [Developing JSON schemas, validation tools, and documentation](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=2565.0 "PLAY @42:45")
  - [Aiming for broad stakeholder engagement across technical/industry expertise](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=1422.0 "PLAY @23:42")
  - [Challenges in balancing technical depth with accessibility for non-technical participants](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=1845.0 "PLAY @30:45")

### Open Standard Development Approach

  - [Goal is to create an efficient, low-overhead system for biomass tracking/reporting](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=1501.0 "PLAY @25:01")
  - [Emphasis on transparency, interoperability, and addressing industry needs](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=1560.0 "PLAY @26:00")
  - [Potential to avoid future data compatibility issues across registries/programs](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=1515.0 "PLAY @25:15")
  - [Tools and examples will demonstrate standard capabilities, but comprehensive implementation left to software developers](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=3013.0 "PLAY @50:13")

### Agency Participation and Governance

  - [Clarification needed on expected roles for agency representatives in working group](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=1341.0 "PLAY @22:21")
  - [Plans to refine task list to be more accessible for domain experts and agency staff](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=1845.0 "PLAY @30:45")
  - [Open questions on long-term governance and maintenance of the standard post-project](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=2929.0 "PLAY @48:49")
  - [Possibility of different programs adopting the standard independently vs. ongoing unified development](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=3212.0 "PLAY @53:32")

## Next Steps

  - [Carbon Direct to refine BOOST working group task list for better accessibility](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=1845.0 "PLAY @30:45")
  - [Follow-up on potential broader CARB presentation beyond interagency team](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=446.0 "PLAY @7:26")
  - [Public meeting scheduled for July 10th, 12-1:30 PM](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=1757.0 "PLAY @29:17")
  - [Draft report review period planned for mid-to-late July](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=320.0 "PLAY @5:20")
  - [Team to provide more details on report review timeline and process](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?tab=summary&timestamp=346.0 "PLAY @5:46")
## Action Items

- **Send follow-up info re: report review timeline (mid-July to end-July); include calendar details ** - [WATCH (5 secs)](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?timestamp=335.9999)
- **Check w/ LCSS team re: interest in broader BOOST presentation; report back to group ** - [WATCH (5 secs)](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?timestamp=443.9999)
- **Refine GitHub issues list to flag tasks relevant for domain experts/agency folks; make more approachable ** - [WATCH (5 secs)](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?timestamp=1834.9999)
- **Create more accessible way for non-technical participants to engage w/ BOOST; share in next day or so ** - [WATCH (5 secs)](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?timestamp=2037.9999)
## Annotations


**HIGHLIGHT**
- Whitney discusses uncertainty about attendance and recording status of meeting - [WATCH (40 secs)](https://fathom.video/share/aUYNbkf-QwmZyZzPCwAnWhZMzHJddDCQ?timestamp=40.830152000000005)
