# BOOST Working Group -- June Schedule - June 25
[**VIEW RECORDING - 56 mins (2 mins of highlights)**](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP)

---
## Meeting Purpose

[Review updates to the BOOST standard development process and solicit feedback on the new Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD) navigator interface.](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=122.0 "PLAY @2:02")

## Key Takeaways

  - [A new ERD navigator interface was introduced to facilitate stakeholder feedback on the data standard entities and relationships](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=936.0 "PLAY @15:36")
  - [Recent updates were made to certification-related entities (certificate, certification body, certification scheme)](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=509.0 "PLAY @8:29")
  - [The team is targeting end of July for release of version 0.1 of the standard](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=466.0 "PLAY @7:46")
  - [An ad-hoc discussion will be scheduled to address data management and updating records in potential state databases/clearinghouses](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=3001.0 "PLAY @50:01")

## Topics

### ERD Navigator Interface

  - [New interface created to make providing feedback easier, especially for non-technical participants](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=1050.0 "PLAY @17:30")
  - [Allows zooming into individual entities and accessing GitHub discussions for each](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=1065.0 "PLAY @17:45")
  - [Discussions categorized by entity type (e.g. land management) to help domain experts focus on relevant areas](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=1467.0 "PLAY @24:27")
  - [General discussion forum for overall structure feedback; Q\&A forum for distinct questions](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=1238.0 "PLAY @20:38")

### Certification Entities Update

  - [Three main objects: certification body, certification scheme, and certificate](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=2509.0 "PLAY @41:49")
  - [Certification body (e.g. FSC, SFI) includes description, jurisdiction, sector](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=2541.0 "PLAY @42:21")
  - [Certification scheme defines attributes of particular standards (e.g. SFI Chain of Custody 2022)](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=2558.0 "PLAY @42:38")
  - [Certificate object attaches to transactions, includes issue/expiry dates, status, auditing history](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=2700.0 "PLAY @45:00")
  - [Data dictionary created to explain fields, types, and semantic purpose of objects](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=2849.0 "PLAY @47:29")

### Interagency Working Group

  - [Parallel group of California state agency stakeholders providing feedback](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=712.0 "PLAY @11:52")
  - [Includes Dept. of Conservation, Air Resources Board, Public Utilities Commission, Energy Commission, Cal Fire, Joint Institute for Wood Products Innovation](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=729.0 "PLAY @12:09")
  - [Helping situate standard in CA policy context and integrate with existing biomass tracking programs](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=747.0 "PLAY @12:27")

### Integration with Existing Standards

  - [Discussion on potential overlap with existing standards like SBP](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=1581.0 "PLAY @26:21")
  - [Intention is to not be duplicative, but create a general framework for reporting to various schemes](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=1750.0 "PLAY @29:10")
  - [Existing certifications would likely be attributes associated with transactions in this standard](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=1806.0 "PLAY @30:06")

### Data Requirements and Validation

  - [Current approach is to allow most fields to be nullable to accommodate various use cases](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=2001.0 "PLAY @33:21")
  - [Discussion on role of standard in data validation (e.g. addresses) vs leaving that to implementing systems](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=2295.0 "PLAY @38:15")
  - [Further conversation needed on defining data management rules for potential state clearinghouse](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=3001.0 "PLAY @50:01")

## Next Steps

  - [Team to continue revising entity attributes and relationships based on feedback](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=2902.0 "PLAY @48:22")
  - [JSON schema development to proceed through mid-July (target \~July 18th)](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=2849.0 "PLAY @47:29")
  - [Ad-hoc meeting to be scheduled to discuss data management and record updating](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=3001.0 "PLAY @50:01")
  - [Next working group meeting to be scheduled for early July](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?tab=summary&timestamp=3254.0 "PLAY @54:14")
## Action Items

- **Review BOOST schema in depth. Identify similarities/potential duplication with SBP (e.g. supply-based reports, certificates, mass balance accounting, DTS transactions, product groups). Provide feedback via GitHub. ** - [WATCH (5 secs)](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?timestamp=1831.9999)
- **Post question re distinguishing provenance/type for verification (truck load tracking, bills of lading, calibration records) in GitHub Q&A discussion board. ** - [WATCH (5 secs)](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?timestamp=2186.9999)
- **Schedule 30-min ad hoc meeting next week re data mgmt/updating in state database. Invite Andy Miller + interested parties. ** - [WATCH (5 secs)](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?timestamp=2990.9999)
- **Schedule next July BOOST meetings. Accommodate key agency stakeholders. Send calendar invites within next couple days. ** - [WATCH (5 secs)](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?timestamp=3243.9999)
## Annotations


**HIGHLIGHT**
- Speaker agrees with previous point made by Danny - [WATCH (30 secs)](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?timestamp=2920.452768)
- Andy discusses interface standards between commercial products and state database updates - [WATCH (1 min)](https://fathom.video/share/xZx2ipvq9sZCNqthiV2pFv89AVeyoysP?timestamp=2920.452812)
